
Python exercise



General Instruction:
1. For doubt clarification please login to https://im.htcindia.com with your eportal credentials
2. Fill your profile by clicking image icon on top left corner.
3. Select group chat menu icon and fill the form as follows (conference.im.htcindia.com).
4. Click on show group chat button and choose LnB2020-Python.
5. Technical trainer will be available from 11 AM to 12:00 NOON IST on week days in IM for doubt clarification.



Conditional statements:

1. Calculate the discount applicable for "Pet shop" customers

a) If the customer is a Premium member then 20% discount is applicable on total bill value.
b) If the customer is a Gold member then 15% discount is applicable on total bill value.
c) If the customer is a Silver member then 10% discount is applicable on total bill value.
d) For all other customers the discount will be 5% of their total bill valued over 2000.



2. Implement the following logic to select the mode of transport for dispatching Pet animals from our
"Pet shop" (DO NOT use logical operators)


a) If priority is not urgent and the weight is less than or equal to 5 Kg, dispatch by Bike.
b) If priority is not urgent and the weight is more than 5 Kg, select a lorry if the distance is less
Than or equal to 250 Km.
c) If the priority is urgent and distance is less than 50 Km and weight is less than 100 Kg,
Select a van
d) In all other cases, use a train



String & functions:

3) Write a function validate_Email to validate the customers email ID which satisfy the below conditions Boolean validate Email (String email) {
....
....
}
a) Email id should not start with '.' and '@' 
b) Email id should end with either 'm' or 'n' 
c) Email id should have '@' only once
d) Length should be minimum 10 maximum 30


4) Identify Function prototype for the following requirements. 

a) Online shopping
b) E-ticket application
c) Fund transfer application
d) Mobile Recharge application


5. Create a function that takes a sentence as input and does the following validation 

a) Length of the sentence should not exceed maximum of 100 characters.
b) Sentence should have at-least one comma.
c) Sentence should not have dot in between.
d) Should not start and end with spaces
e) should end with dot



Classes & Object
OOPS

6. Identify the class names for the following apps:
a) UBER App
b) Amazon App
c) IRCTC App
d) Swiggy App


7. Pick class names from the given list

Excellent
Lazy 
Status 
age
transferMoney 
productId 
HTCGloabalservices 
mobilenumber
Ram
sleep 
fast 
eating



8. a) Create a class EmailValidator , encapsulate the method prepared in question no 3 and test it.

   b) Create a class SentenceValidator , encapsulate the method you have created  in question no 5 and test it.

9. Store employee objects in list and set , try basic CRUD operations.

10. A shop has pets, shop should have sufficient facility to do CRUD operations with the pet.
Code pets with these possibilities (List, Dictionary )
Handle user defined exceptions like “PetNotFoundExceptions”, “InValidPriceexception”


		[List, Dictionary ]


11 . Redo Question number 3 and 5 using regular expressions .


File handling

12. Segregate an employee file ( libre office fomat )  with respect to gender into 2 output files.

       		[TWO EXCEL]

13.How do you check if an input file ( libre office format ) is empty or not ?


14. Write a python program to achieve the following business logics

Create an Order management system for a retail store that does transaction of goods, 
where the details of the products such as Product Code, Product Name, Product Price and Quantity_On_Hand are maintained in a product File, 
whenever a transaction request comes, it is recorded in Transaction File which contains the Fields such as Transaction_Id, Product Code, and Quantity Ordered.
If the requested Product is available and sufficient
   Prepare bill and populate ship file
   Update the quantity on hand
else
   Populate pending file with status either “Not Available” or “Not sufficient”

Note: Try with libreoffice calc format.



15. A Service file (.xls file format) has details about serviceId, Service Description and price, read the data from the file 
validate (price should be greater than zero) and load the data to services table(use postgres or mysql).

a) Write the invalid data to rejection file
b) Log the read and insert counter
c) Store the DB connection properties with .XLS (using LibreOffice lib) or XML file.
d) Handle EmptyFileException.
         
	 	[EXCEL TO SQL]

16. Try basic CRUD operation on product table ( use postgres or mysql ) using python.
     		

		[SQL]

17. Simulate Unload operation of a product table to product file in .XLS file format.

		
		[SQL to EXCEL]

18. Use loggers and log the CRUD counters to a log file.

19. List out the challenges you faced in python lab.

20. Do a comparative case study of python with another programing language ( Core Java or C# ) 

















4
